README.md, before:

# Ruby Protocol Buffers

Protocol Buffers are a way of encoding structured data in an efficient yet
extensible format. Google uses Protocol Buffers for almost all of its internal
RPC protocols and file formats.

This library has two components: a compiler to turn `.proto` definitions
into Ruby modules (extension `.pb.rb`), and a runtime to use protocol
buffers defined by these modules.

The compiler relies on Google's C++ based compiler (`protoc`) for much
of the heavy lifting -- this has huge advantages in ensuring
compatibility and correctness. If you don't need cross-language
interoperability you can create Message classes directly in ruby,
in which case `protoc` is not needed. See "Writing Message Classes
Directly" below.

This library is heavily optimized for encoding and decoding speed.

Because this is a tool for generating code, the RDoc documentation is a bit
unusual. See the text in the ProtocolBuffers::Message class for details on what
code is generated.

## Installation

    $ gem install ruby-protocol-buffers

If you want to compile .proto files to ruby, you'll need `protoc` version >= 2.2 (the Google Protocol Buffer compiler)
installed in the environment where you will be compiling them.
You do not need `protoc` installed to use the generated `.pb.rb` files.

## Example

Given the file test.proto:

```
package Test;

message MyMessage
{
  optional string myField = 1;
}
```

Compile it to ruby using the command:

    $ ruby-protoc test.proto

Then it can be used from ruby code:

```ruby
require 'test.pb'
msg = Test::MyMessage.new(:myField => 'zomgkittenz')
open("test_msg", "wb") do |f|
  msg.serialize(f)
end
encoded = msg.serialize_to_string # or msg.to_s
Test::MyMessage.parse(encoded) == msg # true
```

## Writing Message Classes Directly

Protocol Buffer definitions are often shared between applications
written in different programming languages, and so are normally defined
in .proto files and translated to ruby using the `ruby-protoc` binary.

However, it's quite simple to write ProtocolBuffers::Message classes
directly when a .proto file isn't needed.

```ruby
require 'protocol_buffers'

class User < ProtocolBuffers::Message
  required :string, :name, 1
  required :string, :email, 2
  optional :int32, :logins, 3
end

class Group < ProtocolBuffers::Message
  repeated User, :users, 1
  repeated Group, :subgroups, 2
  
  module GroupType
    include ProtocolBuffers::Enum
    Study = 1
    Play = 2
  end

  optional GroupType, :group_type, 3
end
```

This code is essentially equivalent to the code `ruby-protoc` will
generate if given this .proto file:

```
message User
{
  required string name = 1;
  required string email = 2;
  optional int32 logins = 3;
}

message Group
{
  repeated User users = 1;
  repeated Group subgroups = 2;

  enum GroupType {
    Study = 1;
    Play = 2;
  }

  optional GroupType group_type = 3;
}

```

Using a hand-written Message subclass is the same as using a Message
class generated by `ruby-protoc`.

```ruby
group = Group.new(:group_type => Group::GroupType::Play)
group.users << User.new(:name => 'test user', :email => 'test@example.com')
open("group1.test", "wb") do |f|
  group.serialize(f)
end
```

## Features

### Supported Features

* messages, enums, field types, all basic protobuf features
* packages
* imports
* nested types
* passing on unknown fields when re-serializing a message

### Unsupported Features

* extensions
* packed option (could be useful)
* accessing custom options

### Probably Never to be Supported

* RPC stubbing
* deprecated protocol features (e.g. groups)
* the unsupported options (java_*, optimize_for, message_set_wire_format, deprecated)

## Authors

Brian Palmer (http://github.com/codekitchen)

## Source

http://github.com/mozy/ruby-protocol-buffers

## License

See the LICENSE file included with the distribution for licensing and
copyright details.

Commit message:

add varint gem to the README and remove STDERR spam

README.md, after:

# Ruby Protocol Buffers

Protocol Buffers are a way of encoding structured data in an efficient yet
extensible format. Google uses Protocol Buffers for almost all of its internal
RPC protocols and file formats.

This library has two components: a compiler to turn `.proto` definitions
into Ruby modules (extension `.pb.rb`), and a runtime to use protocol
buffers defined by these modules.

The compiler relies on Google's C++ based compiler (`protoc`) for much
of the heavy lifting -- this has huge advantages in ensuring
compatibility and correctness. If you don't need cross-language
interoperability you can create Message classes directly in ruby,
in which case `protoc` is not needed. See "Writing Message Classes
Directly" below.

This library is heavily optimized for encoding and decoding speed.

Because this is a tool for generating code, the RDoc documentation is a bit
unusual. See the text in the ProtocolBuffers::Message class for details on what
code is generated.

## Installation

    $ gem install ruby-protocol-buffers

If you want to compile .proto files to ruby, you'll need `protoc` version >= 2.2 (the Google Protocol Buffer compiler)
installed in the environment where you will be compiling them.
You do not need `protoc` installed to use the generated `.pb.rb` files.

For greater performance, consider installing the varint gem as well.
This optional gem builds a small C extension to make parsing protocol buffers
faster. If your application uses a Gemfile, add varint to the Gemfile
alongside ruby-protocol-buffers.

## Example

Given the file test.proto:

```
package Test;

message MyMessage
{
  optional string myField = 1;
}
```

Compile it to ruby using the command:

    $ ruby-protoc test.proto

Then it can be used from ruby code:

```ruby
require 'test.pb'
msg = Test::MyMessage.new(:myField => 'zomgkittenz')
open("test_msg", "wb") do |f|
  msg.serialize(f)
end
encoded = msg.serialize_to_string # or msg.to_s
Test::MyMessage.parse(encoded) == msg # true
```

## Writing Message Classes Directly

Protocol Buffer definitions are often shared between applications
written in different programming languages, and so are normally defined
in .proto files and translated to ruby using the `ruby-protoc` binary.

However, it's quite simple to write ProtocolBuffers::Message classes
directly when a .proto file isn't needed.

```ruby
require 'protocol_buffers'

class User < ProtocolBuffers::Message
  required :string, :name, 1
  required :string, :email, 2
  optional :int32, :logins, 3
end

class Group < ProtocolBuffers::Message
  repeated User, :users, 1
  repeated Group, :subgroups, 2
  
  module GroupType
    include ProtocolBuffers::Enum
    Study = 1
    Play = 2
  end

  optional GroupType, :group_type, 3
end
```

This code is essentially equivalent to the code `ruby-protoc` will
generate if given this .proto file:

```
message User
{
  required string name = 1;
  required string email = 2;
  optional int32 logins = 3;
}

message Group
{
  repeated User users = 1;
  repeated Group subgroups = 2;

  enum GroupType {
    Study = 1;
    Play = 2;
  }

  optional GroupType group_type = 3;
}

```

Using a hand-written Message subclass is the same as using a Message
class generated by `ruby-protoc`.

```ruby
group = Group.new(:group_type => Group::GroupType::Play)
group.users << User.new(:name => 'test user', :email => 'test@example.com')
open("group1.test", "wb") do |f|
  group.serialize(f)
end
```

## Features

### Supported Features

* messages, enums, field types, all basic protobuf features
* packages
* imports
* nested types
* passing on unknown fields when re-serializing a message

### Unsupported Features

* extensions
* packed option (could be useful)
* accessing custom options

### Probably Never to be Supported

* RPC stubbing
* deprecated protocol features (e.g. groups)
* the unsupported options (java_*, optimize_for, message_set_wire_format, deprecated)

## Authors

Brian Palmer (http://github.com/codekitchen)

## Source

http://github.com/mozy/ruby-protocol-buffers

## License

See the LICENSE file included with the distribution for licensing and
copyright details.
